
strategicmachines.io

---------

sequencing machine --- moved the data to the complex set of algorithms -- removed complexity in developing rich conversational agents

molecular machine

tiny machines, assembled for a rich interactive experience

the machines run the agents -- 


--------------


design guides --- 'purpose built' with a suite of best practices  -- how to build these agents rapidly and affordably 

ie phone or web token = context

context > scope of topics and intents > classifier > machine ... drives agent ... > 

machine shop -- design and build  .. and test
machine ops -- stamp out agents



----------

from
https://www.ibm.com/watson/call-center-ai/infographic/

future of call centers

73% of consumers say 'valuing their time' is the most important thing a brand can do
70% choose messaging over calling if given the choice
50% of customer support calls are never resolved or require escalation
messaging - #1 choice for communication with brands according to customers
the customer experience is the competitive differentiator -- and since time is so valued -- being a times-based competitor is one way to enhance the experience
$1.6T spent anually on 264 b calls to 800 number contact centers

----
45% of shopping carts abandonded due to the lack of immediate support
91% of unsatisfied customers will not return for a repeat purchase or service
33% of younger customers are wkllling to wait only 1 -3 minutes to get a response to queries
61% of failed customer support calls could have been solved with better access to data
52% of customers hung up on a call because they did not want to wait for a live agent
85% of all customer interactions will be handled without a human agent by 2020
30 - 45% Average employee turnover at call centers, more than double the rate for all industries combined.
$8b - What chatbots will help businesses save per year by 2022, a huge increase from the $20 million estimated for 2017.
$1 million potential annual savings for every second shaved off the average handling time per call
Average savings per call in healthcare and banking by using bots
time savings per customer query for the healthcare and banking industries by using bots.

99% Improvement in customer response times for Autodesk by implementing Watson

------------

value prop for developers
> coaching
> reviews
> income opportunities
> references
> hottest field -- messaging -- data in motion
> earn a reputation -- employer contacts

-----------
the most amazing brand agents to represent you and your business
> elegant closer
> thoughtful registrar
> patient and caring help desk agents
> high precision, high touch, highly intelligent
> informed about your business
> cognitive in every sense 



---------

complex sequential Q&A vs sequential Q&A

AMA -- ask me anything   -- see Molly -- by Chris Messina
because of natural language processing constraints and machine learning model training time, this full vision is at least a couple of years out, according to Messina. But they have to start somewhere, so the first iteration of Molly is an AMA (ask me anything) feature where audiences can find answers about a certain person, with those answers being aggregated from a wide variety of sources, like Medium, Twitter and Instagram.

Messina envisions a potential one-time permission-based system where you could grant a friend access to Molly just for specific purposes and a set period of time, like finding a restaurant for tonight.

Right now Molly’s founders have said it’s too early to think about monetization, and they’re focused on finding product-market fit. But Messina hinted that (way) future versions could use the knowledge base they’ve built up to recommend restaurants or bars they’ll know you like — which could be a future source of revenue.

The startup has raised $1.5 million from BBG, Betaworks, CrunchFund and Halogen Ventures.

----------

with free form text ui -- communicating in the way that your customers like to communicate --

> improve engagement
> improve conversions
> able to deliver 'INSTANT apps' -- no more downloads -- deliver a link to a web page with offers, outcomes, polls, data ....

Instantly beautiful. Supercharge your ad, social and email campaigns by replacing landing pages with our engaging, effective Instant Apps

We'll create, deploy and benchmark an Instant App for an existing digital campaign within two weeks.

Leverage the value of app-like interfaces, while preserving the power of being indexed by search engines like Google and Bing.

Supercharge conversion during critical micro-moments with integrated sign in, checkout and account management.

> a whole new way to think about website development -- and intelligent interactions -- winsome engaging messages delivered in way to drive conversions

Famous was founded on a simple idea: 
to be an original, unique voice that makes the digital world a more beautiful place to be.

Our focus is developing never-before-imagined Instant Apps that transform moments into immersive awareness opportunities.

Famous offers a SaaS-powered platform that merges the power of native app and mobile web to deliver immersive, rich media experiences that are beautifully crafted for mobile life. We empower our partners with a scalable solution of products including Instant Ads, Instant Apps, Instant Articles and Instant Videos, all backed by powerful conversion and engagement metrics.

Whoever enables the average developer to quickly and cheaply build performant HTML5 web-apps will create a billion dollar business and unlock a multi-billion dollar ecosystem.

Much like Apple and Microsoft created a common UI experience on PCs, someone needs to do the same for mobile apps. Whoever does will bring great value to consumers and app builders and at the same time will build a defensible position for themselves.

Microsoft and Apple owned the OS, Oracle owned the database, and Google owned the search engine, but no one has ever owned the UI layer.

---------

developer value prop - open vast new arrays for income and skill building opportunities
 ... making more accessable ecosystem opportunities in microservices
designer value props
consumer value props
owner operator value prop
parter value props


-----------



xio engagement cloud ....

intelligent interactions for private membership networks

intelligent interactions engaging your customers

------

see Bethanie Maples article in
C:\Users\Patrick\Desktop\chaoticnotes\ChaoticFiles\A Concept Document/reasearch


interactive dialogue with semi-intelligent AI 

singularity (e.g. the easily-digestible Avogadro Corp

AI in this space might be the most data-enabled for advanced sentience. However it’s the application of this sophisticated technology with embodiment that may inform a new set of theories for growing AI.

--------

> route to market, consulting and recruiting firms - staff augmentation - bots as part of the deliverable
> deliverables contractually delivered to block chain .... proof
> micro charges for skills .. or agents well composed to handle multi step interactions 
> again ... open market for vending work by the outcome ( handled by a bot) ... open work to the class ... works because architecture is in place already ... tie into github to get started 


--
so note - a single page app can be used to configure a machine and an agent simultaneously -- generating the json files -- to ensure that machine = agent in terms of type and skills selected.

we need both a machine and the associated agent because machines permit us to pick up in the conversation with an agent at any point and at any pace. Machines can generate an infinite number of agents and not lose track of any conversation. Furthermore, they handle gracefully any errors detected in a conversation -- texting errors messages

the skill investory must exist before composition happens -- will this be handled based on type of premium package selected? Things like
> Start
> Blind Copy Text
> Blind Copy Email
> Restart (see dev notes for iterating on async await)
> Error notification
> MemberOnly ( a skill which will only respond to registered members on the platform -- an auth process -- example of a skill that would shortcircuit a machine if not a member)
> Payment
> Register
> Subscribe
> ListAgents name and typical free form text to get agent attention -- those available for the platform (phone number)
> ListAgentSkills - what does this agent do -- exactly
> Help - common commands to start, end and unsubscribe

-- other http skills might include
> Babysitter
> TeeTime
> Table
> PrayerItems
> HailRide
> PostToBlockChain
--- skills which return text and http web site links .. making web consumable, available, searchable, interactive ... )
> Registerme -- a skill that registers for an event vs filling out a webpage form -- starts a chat to gather all infor or pulls infor back from member db)
> ServiceTimes
> Songs
> ....

could also be analytic type skills
> sales for last x 
> product availability for ....
> shipping status for ....

The agent retrieved is a specilialist for that question and context

----------

note - just not machine learning -- but machine working -- not a think tank - but an action tank -- this executes

------------

The value is
> the worlds command line interface (cli) for commerce
> simple
> but sophisticated, supporting elegant interactions
> reuse and speed - compressed cycle time - expotential time to market
> best industry technology and platforms
> wicked fast
> privacy, ownership, GDPR

Machine Supply Chain
SKILL SOURCING

an open market
> developers building and leasing machine skills
> designers assembling machines and orchestrating interactions
> conversation specialists mapping context, interactions and agents for a rich Brand experience 
> web masters integrating skills to webpages -- making them more accessable and consumable

----------

operational characteristics:

use watson nlp to define a classification context - Text > Intent
define machines - Intent > Machine Name = Agent Name
	each machine has a set of states which are executed in a defined order (= skill)
define agent objects  (which include the skills  ,, each skill can be sourced from 
	- system (platform defined and available)
	- user (user defined and loaded via spreadsheet -- good for relaying content and 		web site links)
	- cloud ( http call to a cloud-based function - more sophisticated capability)
each text that arrives is classified on intent
intent is macthed to machine - which controls the order in which agent skills are invoked
each interaction is recorded
context is captured and recorded on the interaction object
	- this is recorded right now on mongo but could be moved to fast cache like redis
	- the logic is simple - an text received is tested to see if a recent interaction with 
	user (FROM) is in db (expiration date counts)
	- if an interaction is found, the machine and state is used to execute a call
	- a callback flag and a callback object are part of the platform service so that
	sophisticated interactions can be managed with cloud functions (not just multistep 	but also recursive)
There is a careful separation of concerns - enough cool platform capability (like finite state machines) to enable sophisticated interactions --- but all interaction logic is externalized to platform(system), user and cloud functions
The objective was to create a 'many to many' messaging hub --- any channel being able to interact with any capability --- virtual or live agents -- on any platform
Also - the platform is multitenant -- with security managed by separating databases between organization (managed through real time configurations -- still needs refactoring or inspection -- i think)


-----------
The machine. The conversational economy is an intersection between functional experts and technology specialists. The functional belnds with the technology. 

The success metric is clearly time to market. With ttm we measure
- envisioning new engagement methods
- designm build test and deploy
- must be acomplished in minutes and hours, not days and weeks
- requires concentrated collaboration among a few -- with testing and filtering among many
- deploy to market

This is only accomplished with the machine -- platform capabilities to shape, test, refine, and produce == and ultimately to measure audience reaction

The machine is not the operator, It is operated by specialists in the field -- writers, designers, technologists, -- data specialists and artists -- whose productivity is enabled and decisions are constrained (appropriately) to amplify the Brand 

The machine is a forge -- delivering virtual agents at scale, which scale and manage scale in the interaction marketplace. Every message is currency. Every message counts, is logged, is tracked is analyzed for insights, trends, connections, perspective, --- and conversions  

--------------
Intelligent interactions
Private data networks
Own and manage the data -- your insights
GDPR
Component Business Model Fuctions -- filly encapsulated functions that are triggered by finiste state machines for order, payments, returns, inventory, shipping, reservations, subscriptions, --- Finite State Machines with IBM Composer

---------------

differentiators
- speed kills - be a time-based competitor -- including with your agency platform -- rapdily configure, train and deploy the smartest agents on the planets
- security? we have security
- all build on rock solid foundations of ibm cloud and watson
- we repurpose your existing webcontent and salvage your existing mgmt processes -- for a messaging world -- genuine morph of messaging and the web
- integrates with a website -- helping to render pages via html5 on mobile devices
- a companies content now becomes more accessable and consumable --- watsom in some ways becomaes the search engine to a companies website content
- compliance with global data protection regulations - gdpr (find reference in articles/1801/gdpr/summary
- content = value -- react to the substance of what is being exchanged
- affordable on the transaction
- notifications engine and mass alerts
- can mediate all discussions
- your data is yours
- encrypted
- analytics - neo4j
- microcommunities, member only, 
- web registriation and mgmt or text mgmt
- highly effective ui -- business needs to organize info to make it consumable, and actionable
- most value resource is time -- a platform that returns time, not consume time
- nlp, nlu, contextual dictionaries
- handoff to live agents
- mass notifications to those opting in
- opt out via text - set member subscriptions via text
- record of conversations, questions, navigation -- for subsequent analysis
------------------

sms mms service with short codes
https://www.protexting.com/sms-api.html

about platform
https://www.protexting.com/product-and-services.html

---
better chat app

https://github.com/philnash/react-programmable-chat
https://github.com/Schmerb/react-redux-hack-client
